Pedro and you and you for example going back a
little to your stage as an older brother that I don't
know if they will call you, they will continue calling you like that on
the street older brother well eh eh
that you who peed between T Let's see he is the
older brother of course it's total you that Med
dia so much between fathers mothers children and
brothers if you would have changed any of the
methods that you used if the
program were broadcast today or is there
something that you regret
today I understand Now I understand that
the program and this was taught to me by the
director of the second season it
had to be done that way to
maintain a television tension and for the
viewer Well then eh sympathize more
with the parents than with the kids okay
And that in this case the parents were the
victims It is true that the parents were
the victims of some kids who were
executioners but that before they had been
victims and set what I say each
boy and each girl in that program
had a story of things that they had not been
able to resolve whether it was a
divorce the death of a family member many
things that bully at school and their
parents had not been  right when it came
to dealing with it, I know, everyone
had their reasons. Okay, so I would say to
the kids, look, you have
reasons to be angry, you have
reasons to be angry, but
that doesn't give you the right to be cruel,
because I had been cruel to my mother,
so I understood that, what would I do now?
The program stigmatized the kids a lot.
I entered in a very
harsh way because also television time, if
the first 20 minutes that the
viewer sees a kid being aggressive,
breaking up and such, I can't come in a
loving way, man, I understand you, come here, I'm
going to give you a hug, the viewer wouldn't
understand. I had to enter like an
elephant in a china shop, setting more
limits, which was what the viewer would
want. After the program and
during the program, I was trained in
how to do family intervention, I was
studying, so
family intervention has to be done in a
much slower way, you have to
understand all the parties, you have to
understand and also give love to that
person who is suffering and that the
abuse that is exerted in this case, the
violence not abuse violence is
caused by something he does not know how to
control So do not judge him so
harshly and accompany them the word
accompany him until he realizes
that this behavior he is having
is not the most appropriate even if he
gives reasons Then I would do it now
But maybe it would not be so televised
because maybe the first thing I would do would be
man don't hit your father but come
here I'm going to give you a hug because I
know he is suffering because you have to be
very screwed to hit a father a
mother no So I would do a little
That difference I would take it more from
emotional education which is what
happened to all of you it is from
emotional literacy Look man what you
feel is called hate and it is regulated like that and
if it is an emotion it is regulated from something
physical but since you have been hating for a
long time as happened to me better what we have to
change It is the way of
thinking about what happened to us and
reduce the intensity of hate so as not to
react with violence there were also
many boys who had few
social skills eh they had been
raised in a very
strong overprotection with which when things did not
go as they wanted  they reacted
violently But because they had done it
all their lives Pedro I wanted to ask you
how the older brother is born but I understand that it is
because of this subject of the book no I mean if
the subject of the book went viral at the time
and you would call the attention of the
producer No I call the attention of the
producer as a presenter but the
program is a French program it
premiered on French television it is the
idea of ​​a French production company le
concepte was the one who had premiered in
France with The
Mayor of Paris's Bodyguard a guy who handed out
blows like a champion Pascal was his
name was he was an expert in Karate he had
some systems that he took everyone to
his doyo to his gym there someone would
get some beatings And then he would
redirect them and in the production company plural
entertainment I remember they bought the
format brought it to Spain it was for
a while in a drawer and when they saw the
book my book they called me and they did
the casting And then they liked how
I confronted the kids And how I
spoke to them well yes they had brought
educators psychologists and such But as they
were very orthodox when it came to
dealing with it I skipped  all the rules
and I would tell them everything and I would talk and say
yes such and such and no and it was like very very
confrontational And he liked that a lot and
then that was what the program did
that then rose like foam in
audience plus it was a few brutal years
of audience for cu the one from France was
pure host It was no less psychological the one from
France it was always the same he did
a series of guidelines the same then yes they
always ended up going to this
guy's gym when
the producer hires me I say Hey I don't know how to
hit he says No but in your case we are going to
get them to do some kind of sport
and when doing sport the first season they
did very well the second one too
then we changed the sport it was
like camping no the sport was like
like the cokes no they say that you have to take him out for a
run so that he tires himself out
a little every day well totally it was
when they were softer and that's when they
broke they cried and confessed everything it
was brutal That that
she that in most that I have
seen the episodes 200 times repeated
because yes it is true that there is something
that hooks you that with the harshness with which
some  They spoke to their parents, to their
siblings, some of them were impossible to
reason with and of course today I
think a format like that would be inemi the
way television is now in
society, I don't know, some were
lost cases for you, so to speak. Let's see, not
so much, there was no need to give them time, what
happens is that I had 10 days, 8 days in
some cases. So I was very
invasive and that's why some were
confrontational. If
you give those kids a space of time that
we have to record 12, 13, 14
hours a day and then broadcast 52
seconds, imagine 10 days at 12, 13 hours
of recording, the kid in the end, I think he
ends up saturated, he said, okay, Pedro, I'm going to
change because he's a pain and get out of
here, no, but if you do it, giving them
the appropriate time, they're going to get
drained, they're going to fight, but in the end they
reason because they had a good heart, a
really good heart, there wasn't one that
I said, this guy is a bad person, they all
had their issues, their problems that they hadn't
known how to handle. So if you
gave him  more time it wasn't so
difficult to talk to them but I had to
arrive pam pam pam pam pam pam
first three days caña caña caña caña there were little
minutes of dynamics and then I
said the moment they broke is
that they broke at that moment I said
now yes I can show myself close to
you but I recorded and I was eh from the set we
take him somewhere else I recorded and I
slept with him I had no contact with him off
camera So it was the kid saying
damn this guy comes here he hits me
from all sides he leaves I want to
talk to him look how good they were eh
I want to talk to him calmly and
the editor said no No you can't yet
So in the end they said damn
Pedro it seemed like you came and that you were
against me I said No I came to
expose you to a reality that if I had
come in another way Maybe you wouldn't have
seen it but now with
time I know that they would have seen it
but it takes Maybe a month of
recording there is no production company that
can handle that you had contact with I mean I don't
know if there was a  follow up after with
some of them Specifically on your
part or have you kept in touch with
any of them over time
yes Look recently one of them wrote to me from I
think it was the first season Ivan
who is getting married next year and I
called him because he wrote to me on Instagram and he
said but I think he should be my best man
will you say that he should be your witness
because the best man has to be your friend A
close friend of mine says yes well I got nervous
this put me no no but the guy got
nervous and I said I'm delighted that you're
calling me also a guy who
we got the mattress out of the house well well
that case was really hard too and the guy
has pushed through another one I ran
into well Dakota is the most famous
Dakota is a person that I have with her we
send messages on WhatsApp
and so on she's a girl who changed
her relationship with her parents but then
day she has a character watch out with
Dakota there aren't many who have written to me
others haven't changed I have to say
others haven't changed well
we've seen Dakota on television that's what
you say about character be careful I mean
sig a genius the program did not change
personalities the program was
trying to redirect a situation
of discomfort in the house how to redirect
reestablish a healthy coexistence
within the home but if you are a
kid who has your issues and your
character I am not going to change it right They
sent me a case you just mentioned
that not everyone changed a 20
year old detainee in Baracaldo who stabbed his
grandmother and ere another woman in a
family fight that was one deal that I have experienced
That is the case that I in year two I
don't remember the third year third
season of Big Brother was the one where I got my
wires crossed and I said
that I did not want to continue with the program
because when they showed me the case I
said this kid is not to do a
TV program I mean this kid is
to be admitted to a therapeutic center
in the end we admitted to a center the
program led him there but it
led him without having done well what is
done for a person to enter what
motivational interviewing that is your
consumption has so many negative things that you
have to enter you see admit me and
Get well if he entered we finished the
violin program and on the third day after
three days he escaped and did what you
told me yes yes this boy for me is
one of the hardest cases and the one that hurt me the most
bad conclusion and then there
was another boy too who appeared on
television in radical groups and such a
very very sexist guy there have been cases that
Hey we couldn't help them and that
hurt me but if we put it on the scale
I did 100 cases I accompanied 100
families 85% were very well
very happy and they have written to me and but that
small percentage is because they have no
remedy or The Remedies are different because
not because maybe the approach Maybe
what I was talking about now The approach
would have been more time calmer more
peaceful some other strategies we
weren't miraculous I gave it to the
people Oh I don't touch the children and
cure them eh this is a job that takes a
long time and neither can
all the responsibility fall on you who
were a team it was a  program
was still a
television program no and in 10 days neither
Teresa of Calcutta you are not it is what you
say that enough I mean the fact that
someone has written to you offering you to
be their godfather already says a lot I want to
tell you that those who have those who have
written to me have contacted me Look
for example Miguel a young lad I
met him in La Nucía in the Levante near
Benidorm he worked in maintenance
at the hotel and he says to me Pedro you know a
guy with a monkey I say wow no he says I'm
Miguel I say Pam automatically
older brother I say there I remembered the
frame where he hit a door to the
door of the
parking lot and broke it I say damn Miguel
How are you Well I'm very well I say
good and after the program he says Well
Pedro there were things that I couldn't
talk about on the program then I was in
jail but I got out and now I have a
daughter and a wife and I really appreciate
what you did with me I say [ __ ] I say Well I
appreciate it too because
in a certain way there are some things that I
believe that  I made you maybe screwed over
a little and such he says no no
everything you did was very good for me and like him there have
been many who have
thanked me for that intervention
others were not so happy but the
majority yes you have arrived in some episode
being afraid that someone will confront you in an
aggressive way of course they were kids
some of whom are [ __ ] aggressive and
besides they are not kids damn they can
hurt you No look Yes when I saw the
images before going to the house I
told the director I say Hey this beast
and then he arrived in front of them I
looked in his eyes man and when I looked in their
eyes he said mm this kid is not bad
and I lost all the tension with which
I arrived this kid is crying out for
help So yes there was some
friction a push someone But what I
did directly when I entered there
was my ego I threw him to the ground and
said look everything this kid
tells me part of that he is having a really bad time I
say And from there I can help him
Better and I remember that I only fought
with one in the first  season I didn't
have any experience yet, I
grabbed one of them and said dude stop because you
're going too far, I don't know what. And I never
had to grab a guy again, just one
who went for his mother, I don't know if it was the
fifth or sixth season, I don't remember. He was
going for his mother so I did have to
tackle him and the guy didn't hit me or anything, he
stopped and I threw him to the ground and I said dude, I'm not letting you go until
you calm down, I mean
because you're going to hurt your mother and I
really can't allow that. And the guy
said okay, Pedro, I calm down, I calm down, let me go, let me go. I let him
go and he didn't do
anything to his mother, but nothing else, the girl,
yes, some of them scratched me and kicked me a few times,
eh, but because of the rage they felt,
I never took it as anything
personal. And Pedro, eh, you mentioned before that
on Big Brother the focus was on,
no, that the executioner was always the
children, no, and lately I see a lot of
programs on television where they
put the focus, eh, especially the mothers. No, I don't
want to put you on either, eh, I don't know  if I
can give you examples so as not to put you in any
trouble. But well, in some
programs like, for example, Isabel
Patoja, Carmen Borrego, well, etc.,
the focus is a bit on the fact that the children are a
bit like the victims and the mothers. Well,
a bit like the executioners. In the end, I don't know
if television interests pull more in that direction
or if parents can really
make mistakes too or it's always
the kids' fault, of course, totally, totally,
look at what
I've studied since it's a
bit of an ugly course, no, it's an expert in
intervention in violence. Filio parental,
expert in the prevention of violence
that sons and daughters exercise against fathers
and mothers, they tell you that 20% of the
behavior of the personality is this. It is
marked by genetics. The
other 80% that affects behavior
has to do with the educational model.
So, [ __ ], there are educational models and I'm
telling you this because my mother, before
dying, when I asked her for forgiveness, she
said to me, Clara said, darling, I've
loved you all my life and you have to
forgive me, maybe for me, but it's that I've
done the best I knew how. Okay,
then, since there isn't a  [ __ ] manual that
teaches you as an adult you can be
doing things thinking that they are the best
for your son or your daughter and
however you are conditioning them in that
80% to bad behavior to a
feeling of discomfort to anger to
hatred to a feeling of abandonment it is very
easy to judge with the eyes of another put yourself
in the shoes of mothers who have had to
raise their children or these
people that you have named these
mothers not their personal circumstances
yes it is true that part of the
behavior of those boys or
girls is the responsibility of those fathers
and mothers but you cannot tell them it
is your fault only your fault
no you have done it the best that there has
been has taught you someone has
guided you someone has told you
Hey, what you are doing could be the
result that your daughter
tomorrow will sit in front of a
television set and will tell you all this
you did not know at that time so
to judge if they did it wrong or
well then we would have to be
parents I have judged
my parents very very harshly and then I
separated two  I have been
involved in drugs for a while,
so who am I to judge
anyone? The important thing is to learn and
say damn. Now my daughters have a
good relationship with them because I left
all that and I have prepared myself to
educate them better, but look, to
accompany them, which for me is the
word. I am accompanying them so
that tomorrow they know how to take care
of themselves and I will do it better or worse and they will
have their reproaches because, of course,
I have messed up in things, we are not
perfect like